small and fast vehicles like the
mitsubishi lancer ralliart are really
hot these days especially on the west
coast mitsubishi executives coming to
the detroit area let automotive
journalists got a quick spin in the
all-new 2009 lancer ralliart that will
do a full test drive feature later this
vehicle a step below the really powerful
lancer evolution it does have 235
horsepower and is all wheel drive and we
talked about the vehicle with Brian
Arnett who's the manager of product
strategy for mitsubishi well the biggest
addition to this vehicle is the is the
motor it features the semi-closed x4 be
11 2.0 litre turbocharged engine it
produces 237 max horsepower and 250 a
253 foot-pounds of torque it's mated to
also a very sophisticated twin clutch no
sport tronic transmission this is a dual
clutch transmission which basically has
one gear that operates on even cogs and
another gear another clutch that
operates on odd gear so it's a very fast
shifting semi-automatic transmission now
do you see vehicles like this growing in
popularity with the more interest in
fuel economy so that with the turbo
charging you get the fuel economy but
still get some of the power that people
are looking for we think so we think
that turbo charging is going to be a
good way for those enthusiasts to get
driving excitement while still getting
good fuel economy for instance this
vehicle here gets 25 miles to the gallon
on
my way so you're able to take this
vehicle out on the canyon roads have a
lot of fun and still get good fuel
economy when you're in your everyday
driving condition so about what
percentage of Lancer sales do you think
the rally our original big we expect
this model to be about five to ten
percent of the total sales volume for
lancer cuz it's for people who are
really into driving one a smaller
package but also want to get a kick
that's correct yeah it's it's a great
car to drive it's a lot of fun from
Lancer family of vehicles we offer all
the way down from the fourteen thousand
dollar economy line up to the SuperDuper
you know lancer evolution and forty
thousand so we offer a wide range of
choices for customers this particular
model here we priced probably somewhere
in the neighborhood south of around
27,000 the mitsubishi lancer ralliart is
aimed at vehicles like the subaru WRX
and they're going after young men and
the 25 to 35 year-old range I'm a little
bit older than that actually I'm quite a
bit older than that but still my initial
impressions were the vehicle was fun to
drive it move pretty fast and while I'm
not generally a fan of those fat
shifting automatics this one was both
fast and smooth and that's a pretty rare
combination we'll check it out a little
bit later and give you a full report in
the future I am auto beat reporter jeff
gilbert
you